---
layout: post
title:  "astro-ph Reading in 2019"
date:   2019-02-25 14:00:00
author: Jiaxuan Li
categories: paper
---
# Astro-ph Reading List in 2019
Feel very ashamed for the decadence in the past year 2018. I will try to read as many paper as possible and do my best in 2019.

## 02/25/19 - 03/03/19

### [The NANOGrav 11-Year Data Set: Limits on Gravitational Waves from Individual Supermassive Black Hole Binaries](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11585)

- Just read this [astrobite](https://astrobites.org/2019/02/21/searching-for-gravitational-waves-from-binary-supermassive-black-holes-with-cosmic-lighthouses/) on this paper.
- NANOGrav project provides another approach of detecting gravitational waves. LIGO (and other ground-based experiments) is sensitive to high-frequency GW (1-1000 Hz), which is usually excited by binary BH mergers or binary NS mergers. Pulsar timing array is sensitive to low-frequency GW (nano-Hz), usually excited by the merger of supermassive BHs which are the result of galaxy-galaxy mergers.
- (Submilimeter) Pulsar is the lighthouse in the universe. If the gravitational wave propagate in the direction from the pulsar to us, the period of pulsar will be slightly different. This paper analyzes the past 11-year data from 43 pulsars, and find no GW event above a certain strain. 
> We find that there are no SMBHBs with a chirp mass greater than $$10^9$$ solar masses within a distance of 120 Mpc and none with chirp passes greater than $$10^{10}$$ solar masses within 5.5 Gpc. Using this data set, the collaboration has determined that there are no SMBHBs in the Virgo Cluster with a chirp mass greater than $$1.6 \times 10^9$$ solar masses emitting gravitational waves at a frequency of 9 nHz, which implies that none of the galaxies NGC 4472, NGC 4486, or NGC 4649 (which are all candidates for gravitational waves in the Virgo Cluster) could contain SMBHBs emitting gravitational waves in this frequency range.
- I know very little about this area. But it will be quite exciting if we detected the GW from SMBHs merger in the nearby galaxies.

### [A Brief History of Gravitational Waves](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.09400.pdf)
- The discovery of the first GW event is quite interesting and exciting. It's worth noting that 'inject' events test the correct judgment of GW events. 
- Unlike electromagnetic wave, which can be excited by electric dipole (one positive, one negative), the gravitational wave cannot be simply excited by a dipole, since there's nothing with negative mass.
- Imagine we have two points A and B. We can only detect the transverse GW which is propagating perpendicular to A-B. Only this type of GW could stretch the distance between A and B. The best 'ruler' of measuring distance is light. The speed of light is constant and unaltered by a gravitational wave.

## 02/18/19 - 02/24-19

### [The local and distant Universe: stellar ages and $$H_0$$](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.07081.pdf)
Hubble tension again. We measure $$H_0$$ from different aspects, but mainly from local distance ladder and CMB. The measurement of $$H_0$$ by using CMB is heavily based on $$\Lambda$$CDM model and basic physics in the early Universe. In the middle between CMB and local universe, SNe and BAO take part in. (Also notice that CMB could be used to probe all the physics from last scattering surface to today.) The determination of $$H_0$$ on local universe is based on some stellar physics (Cepheids, supernovae Ia). Note that local distance measurement relies on the flatness of Euclidean space. Gravitational Wave and counterparts, time-delay lensing, 

To be read.

### [Dependence of Type Ia supernova luminosities on their local environment](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.07697)
- I just read this [astrobite](https://astrobites.org/2019/02/18/type-ia-supernovae-could-use-some-more-color/) about this paper.
- People used to calibrate SNe Ia using color (B-V) and $$m_{15}$$. Now this paper suggest that the color of local environment of SNe (their surroundings) should also be considered as a factor of calibration. Redder color implies low SFR. Previous analyses have found that galaxies that are not forming many stars tend to host SNe Ia that are brighter than SNe Ia from very active galaxies even _after standardization_.
- They test the distribution of Hubble residual $$\mu - \mu_{model}$$ for SNe in different local environments (different $$U-V$$ color). They find significant difference ($$7\sigma$$).
- Hence, while calibrating things, we should not only consider the things themselves, but also the environments where they're located.

### [WFIRST, The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope: 100 Hubbles for the 2020s](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.05569.pdf)
- Scientific goal: weak lensing survey; find exoplanets by transient/microlensing and direct imaging (using coronagraph); supernova Ia survey and monitoring; general observation by submitting proposal. No data protection!
- Really **Wide Field**! **WFIRST can do COSMOS survey x125 faster; CANDELS-Wide 1050x faster;  3D-HST 730x faster**. (See Fig. 2 in this paper)
- Nice video about WFIRST: [WFIRST: The best of both worlds](https://youtu.be/LbJpVHMV1m4).
- WFIRST can discover (we hope so) 20,000 galaxies with $$z>8$$ (at the age of 0.6 Gyr) per month, 100 exoplanets per month, and about 8000 SNe Ia in total. 

## 01/21/19 - 01/27/19
### [A second galaxy missing dark matter in the NGC1052 group, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05973v1)

## 01/14/19 - 01/20/19

### [SDSS-IV MaNGA: Inside-out vs. outside-in quenching in different local environments](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05126)

### [The MASSIVE Survey - XII Connecting Stellar Populations of Early-Type Galaxies to Kinematics and Environment, by Jenny Greene](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.01271)

### [A mass-dependent slope of the galaxy size-mass relation out to z~3: further evidence for a direct relation between median galaxy size and median halo mass, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05014v1)
Continued from the following paper, which says $$r_{80}$$ may be related to galaxy halo. This paper studies this further and gets some interesting results. After reading this paper, I feel intensively that good science is linking difference fields. Dirac linked analytical mechanics (Poisson brackets) with quantum phenomena, then quantum mechanics was born. This paper superficially links the stellar mass - $$r_{80}$$ size diagram with the well-known stellar mass - halo mass relation, and get some interesting (maybe wrong, maybe correct) results.

- [Miller et al. 2019](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05017v1) already shows that the stellar mass - $$r_{80}$$ size diagram cannot tell the SF and passive galaxies apart. Fig. 1 shows that the median lines of stellar mass - $$r_{80}$$ size diagram are like two pieces of power law. Then they fit this 'broken power law' and define the pivot mass $$M_{p}$$, where the line turns up a little bit.

- Then they find the pivot mass evolve with redshift significantly. The first slope (which is lower) changes slightly over redshift, but the second slope changes much. Actually the first slope (piece) is just composed of the passive galaxy branch, and the second slope (piece) is presented by SF galaxies.

- Most interestingly, they remind of the stellar mass - halo mass relation. If the x-axis is stellar mass and y-axis is halo mass, the SMHM relation resembles this stellar mass - size diagram in $$r_{80}$$. So what's the physics behind this? First, the halo mass is proportional to the cubed virial radius $$R_{vir}$$. And if $$r_{80}$$ is proportional to $$R_{vir}$$, then it's reasonable that $$r_{80}$$ is a proxy of halo mass. So they just fit this coefficient for the most nearby redshift bin and find $$r_{80} = 0.047 R_{vir}$$. Assuming this holds for all redshift ranges, they plot SMHM relation predicted by $$r_{80}$$, which is now a proxy of halo mass. They find it's good to $$z\sim 2$$.

- In measuring the SMHM relation, there are many methods such as g-g lensing and clustering (which is more direct and more observational), abundance matching, and halo occupation distribution. But different methods gives different results and have different detection ability on redshift. They author also define a pivot masses for the SMHM relations and study their evolution. They don't match with stellar mass - size one. So they suspect the intrinsic scatter may cause huge caveat when convert a halo-to-stellar relation to stellar-to-halo relation.

### [A New View of the Size-Mass Distribution of Galaxies: Using $r_{20}$ and $r_{80}$ instead of $r_{50}$, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05017v1)
The classfication of galaxies can not only based on stellar mass - color diagram (also stellar mass - SFR diagram), bust also based on stellar mass - size diagram. In the past, people usually use the effective radius $$r_{50}$$ as a proxy of galaxy size. (But I have been suspecting how well can $$r_{50}$$ describe the size of a galaxy for a long time.) As a common sense, massive elliptical galaxies are more extended in the outskirts, but spirals are not. If we fit a galaxy using a single Sersic model, ellipticals tend to have larger Sersic index $$n$$. In this paper, Pieter and his collaborators check what would happen if we use $$r_{20}$$ and $$r_{80}$$ as proxies of galaxy sizes. And I remember that Sandy Faber talked about this quite a lot in a colloquium in KIAA.
- This paper is quite straightforward. (But I didn't dig deep into the sample selection part.) They find that if we use $$r_{20}$$, then using the stellar mass - size diagram can easily distinguish star-forming and passive galaxies apart. But using $$r_{80}$$, SF and passive behaves similarly.
- In this paper, authors use some new algorithms/terms in statistics: [Hartigan's dip test](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/diptest/); Gaussian mixture models; Bayesian information criterion; Ashman's $$D$$ parameter; Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. But actually these are also straightforward.
- They suspect $$r_{20}$$ has something to do with star-forming / quenching. Since $$r_{80}$$ is not very different between SF and passive galaxies, it may be related to the galaxy halo.
- Besides, I find that log-normal distribution is interesting, see this paper [Log-normal distributions across the science: keys and clues](https://academic.oup.com/bioscience/article/51/5/341/243981).

### [Still Missing Dark Matter: KCWI High-Resolution Stellar Kinematics of NGC1052-DF2, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.03711v1)
On how to measure the velocity dispersion directly from spectrum, I found a paper by Luis Ho in 2002: [A Study of the Direct Fitting Method for Measurement of Galaxy Velocity Dispersions](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/343840/pdf). The main idea in this paper is:
- In measuring velocity dispersion, it's convenient to use $$x = \ln(\lambda)$$ scale, because $$x' = \ln[\lambda(1+z)] = x + \ln(1+z) \approx x + z$$ for $$z\ll 1$$.
- Find some spectrums of stars as templates. They don't have any velocity dispersions (or can be ignored).
- Assume the effect of velocity dispersion is Gaussian. Then, to get a dispersed spectrum, you should convolve the template with a Gaussian kernel with a given radius. Write this in maths, that is $$T(x)]\otimes G(x, r)$$.
- But we should consider that the featureless continuum components are different between template and galaxy. So we simply add a featureless continuum which is typically a straight line with $$x = \ln(\lambda)$$ (in $$\lambda$$ domain this is an exponential continuum). Hence: $$[T(x)\otimes G(x, r)] + C(x)$$.
- To compensate other effects such as reddening difference between template and galaxy, we multiply a low-order Legendre polynomial, then get the final model spectrum. That is:
$$M(x) = \{[T(x)\otimes G(x, r)] + C(x)\}\sum_l P_l(x).$$
- Then we have several parameters, like Gaussian kernel radius, continuum straight line intercept and slope, and coefficients for every order Legendre polynomials. Note that in $$\chi^2$$, the error term contains the measurement error of galaxy spectrum, and error of template which is typically negligible. At last, let MCMC be. The radius of Gaussian kernel should be the velocity dispersion (need a conversion).

Now for the NGC1052-DF2 case, Shany make a spectrum combining spectrums of all special region. And this spectrum has been broadened. Shany uses templates from two Global Clusters, say M3 and M13. The templates here has already been broadened by velocity dispersion (Gaussian). And we know the $$\sigma$$ of two Gaussian obeys $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}^2 = \sigma_{\mathrm{template}}^2 + \sigma_{\mathrm{measure}}^2$$, where $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}$$ is the velocity dispersion of DF2. So we can measure $$\sigma_{\mathrm{measure}}$$ by the same method as stated above, and then get the velocity dispersion of DF2 $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}$$, which is $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}} = 8.4\pm2.1\ \mathrm{km
 s}^{-1}$$.

How to calculate the dynamical mass given the velocity dispersion? I need to figure out.

Intrinsic shape or rotation axis (minor axis rotation.)

Kevin: it's not necessarily weird that we detect a galaxy lacking dark matter in its central region. Given the large scatter of halo mass and halo concentration of a given stellar mass in the low-mass end, it's probably that we just encountered a galaxy with low halo mass and low halo concentration.


## Gaussian process
http://www.gaussianprocess.org/gpml/chapters/RW.pdf

Vox Charta Key: jiaxuan_li@PKU

Convert LaTeX to html gif picture: [https://www.codecogs.com/latex/eqneditor.php](https://www.codecogs.com/latex/eqneditor.php)