---
layout: post
title:  "astro-ph Reading in 2019"
date:   2019-01-17 21:38:00
author: Jiaxuan Li
categories: paper
---
# Astro-ph Reading List in 2019
Feel very ashamed for the decadence in the past year 2018. I will try to read as many paper as possible and do my best in 2019.

## 01/14/19 - 01/21/19

### [A New View of the Size-Mass Distribution of Galaxies: Using $$r_{20}$$ and $$r_{80}$$ instead of $$r_{50}$$, by Pieter van Dokkum](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05017v1)
The classfication of galaxies can not only based on stellar mass - color diagram (also stellar mass - SFR diagram), bust also based on stellar mass - size diagram. In the past, people usually use the effective radius $$r_{50}$$ as a proxy of galaxy size. (But I have been suspecting how well can $$r_{50}$$ describe the size of a galaxy for a long time.) As a common sense, massive elliptical galaxies are more extended in the outskirts, but spirals are not. If we fit a galaxy using a single Sersic model, ellipticals tend to have larger Sersic index $$n$$. In this paper, Pieter and his collaborators check what would happen if we use $$r_{20}$$ and $$r_{80}$$ as proxies of galaxy sizes. And I remember that Sandy Faber talked about this quite a lot in a colloquium in KIAA.
- This paper is quite straightforward. (But I didn't dig deep into the sample selection part.) They find that if we use $$r_{20}$$, then using the stellar mass - size diagram can easily distinguish star-forming and passive galaxies apart. But using $$r_{80}$$, SF and passive behaves similarly.
- In this paper, authors use some new algorithms/terms in statistics: Hartigan's dip test; Gaussian mixture models; Bayesian information criterion; Ashman's $$D$$ parameter; Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. But actually these are also straightforward.
- They suspect $$r_{20}$$ has something to do with star-forming / quenching. Since $$r_{80}$$ is not very different between SF and passive galaxies, it may be related to the galaxy halo.

### [Still Missing Dark Matter: KCWI High-Resolution Stellar Kinematics of NGC1052-DF2](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.03711v1)
On how to measure the velocity dispersion directly from spectrum, I found a paper by Luis Ho in 2002: [A Study of the Direct Fitting Method for Measurement of Galaxy Velocity Dispersions](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/343840/pdf). The main idea in this paper is:
- In measuring velocity dispersion, it's convenient to use $$x = \ln(\lambda)$$ scale, because $$x' = \ln[\lambda(1+z)] = x + \ln(1+z) \approx x + z$$ for $$z\ll 1$$.
- Find some spectrums of stars as templates. They don't have any velocity dispersions (or can be ignored).
- Assume the effect of velocity dispersion is Gaussian. Then, to get a dispersed spectrum, you should convolve the template with a Gaussian kernel with a given radius. Write this in maths, that is $$T(x)]\otimes G(x, r)$$.
- But we should consider that the featureless continuum components are different between template and galaxy. So we simply add a featureless continuum which is typically a straight line with $$x = \ln(\lambda)$$ (in $$\lambda$$ domain this is an exponential continuum). Hence: $$[T(x)\otimes G(x, r)] + C(x)$$.
- To compensate other effects such as reddening difference between template and galaxy, we multiply a low-order Legendre polynomial, then get the final model spectrum. That is:
$$M(x) = \{[T(x)\otimes G(x, r)] + C(x)\}\sum_l P_l(x).$$
- Then we have several parameters, like Gaussian kernel radius, continuum straight line intercept and slope, and coefficients for every order Legendre polynomials. Note that in $$\chi^2$$, the error term contains the measurement error of galaxy spectrum, and error of template which is typically negligible. At last, let MCMC be. The radius of Gaussian kernel should be the velocity dispersion (need a conversion).

Now for the NGC1052-DF2 case, Shany make a spectrum combining spectrums of all special region. And this spectrum has been broadened. Shany uses templates from two Global Clusters, say M3 and M13. The templates here has already been broadened by velocity dispersion (Gaussian). And we know the $$\sigma$$ of two Gaussian obeys $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}^2 = \sigma_{\mathrm{template}}^2 + \sigma_{\mathrm{measure}}^2$$, where $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}$$ is the velocity dispersion of DF2. So we can measure $$\sigma_{\mathrm{measure}}$$ by the same method as stated above, and then get the velocity dispersion of DF2 $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}$$, which is $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}} = 8.4\pm2.1\ \mathrm{km
 s}^{-1}$$.

How to calculate the dynamical mass given the velocity dispersion? I need to figure out.

 
Vox Charta Key: jiaxuan_li@PKU

Convert LaTeX to html gif picture: https://www.codecogs.com/latex/eqneditor.php