---
layout: post
title:  "astro-ph Reading in 2019"
date:   2019-04-01 22:00:00
author: Jiaxuan Li
categories: paper
---
# Astro-ph Reading List in 2019
Feel very ashamed for the decadence in the past year 2018. I will try to read as many paper as possible and do my best in 2019.

[AAS-Nova](https://aasnova.org)
[Astrobite](https://astrobites.org)

## 04/08/19 - 04/14/19

### [dynesty: A Dynamic Nested Sampling Package for Estimating Bayesian Posteriors and Evidences](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02180)

### [EDGE I: the mass-metallicity relation as a critical test of galaxy formation physics](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02723v1)

### [Cook: Measuring Star-Formation Histories, Distances, and Metallicities with Pixel Color-Magnitude Diagrams I: Model Definition and Mock Tests](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00011v1)

## 04/01/19 - 04/07/19

### [Fast interstellar dust extinction laws in Python](https://github.com/kbarbary/extinction)

### [Intracluster light: a luminous tracer for dark matter in clusters of galaxies](https://ukads.nottingham.ac.uk/abs/2019MNRAS.482.2838M)

### [Effects of Gas on Formation and Evolution of Stellar Bars and Nuclear Rings in Disk Galaxies](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/aafc5f/meta)
- Interesting one. TO READ.
- We still do not know/not sure wheter the formation (time) of bar is correlated to the gas content $$f_{\rm gas}$$. 

### [TESS Photometric Mapping of a Terrestrial Planet in the Habitable Zone: Detection of Clouds, Oceans, and Continents](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12182v1)
- They use `starry` package to fit albedo map on the exoplanet and find continents on it! Check the image [here](https://github.com/rodluger/earthshine/blob/682386970078e42a09d7a45f1e242dc0716820c1/notebooks/EarthView.ipynb)!

### [ACRONYM: Acronym CReatiON for You and Me](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12180v1)
`pip install acronym` and get fantastic acronyms for your projects!

### [Filter Profile Service: A repository of Filter information for the VO](http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/svo/theory/fps/)

## 03/24/19 - 03/31/19

### [天文物理类英文科技论文写作的常见问题](https://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5973)
- Super useful!!!!!

### [The Information Content of Stellar Halos: Stellar Population Gradients and Accretion Histories in Early-type Illustris Galaxies](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/#abs/arXiv:1610.00014)

### [Kormendy: Secular Evolution in Disk Galaxies](http://www.astro.caltech.edu/~george/ay21/readings/Kormendy-Canary.pdf)

### [Belfiore 2018: SDSS IV MaNGA – sSFR profiles and the slow quenching of discs in green valley galaxies](https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/477/3/3014/4951621)

### [Andy Goulding: Galaxy-scale Bars in Late-type Sloan Digital Sky Survey Galaxies Do Not Influence the Average Accretion Rates of Supermassive Black Holes](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/#abs/arXiv:1705.08895)

### [Spinoso 2019: Bar-driven evolution and quenching of spiral galaxies in cosmological simulations](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2017MNRAS.465.3729S)

### [SDSS-IV MaNGA: Spatially Resolved Star Formation Main Sequence and LI(N)ER Sequence](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2017ApJ...851L..24H)

## 03/17/19 - 03/23/19

### [Illuminating Low Surface Brightness Galaxies with the Hyper Suprime-Cam Survey](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018ApJ...857..104G)
> Blends of faint galaxies and/or distant galaxy groups are a major source of contamination for any deep diffuse-galaxy search (e.g., Koda et al. 2015; Sifón et al. 2018). The faintness of these sources means that they will not be masked by the previous step of our pipeline, and if detected as single objects, their sizes will be biased high and their central surface brightnesses will be biased low, making them look like the objects we are searching for.

### [Belfiore 2016: SDSS IV MaNGA – spatially resolved diagnostic diagrams: a proof that many galaxies are LIERs](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/#abs/arXiv:1605.07189)

IMPORTANT for my paper! 
- People used BPT diagram to distinguish SF galaxies with AGN galaxies. But in the past, SDSS only uses single-fibre spectrum, whose aperture typically corresponds to several kpc (also considering seeing). But to confirm AGN, you need to zoom more in to the scale of ~ 100 kpc. 
- "Heckman (1980) first presented a detailed study of LI(N)ER emission, arguing that LI(N)ERs could represent the low-luminosity extension of the Sy population. Studies of the central few parsecs in nearby galaxies (Ho, Filippenko & Sargent 1997; Shields et al. 2007) demonstrate that LINER emission on those scales can be associated with nuclear accretion phenomena, in particular weak, radiatively inefficient AGNs (see for example the review from Ho 2008). " But Belfiore argued that the H$$\alpha$$ emission luminosity excited by pAGB stars can be equal to (or brighter than) that excited by LLAGN. So pAGB can be a strong candidate.
- The demarcation line between SF and Seyfert+LINER can be derived theoretically. Here we use Kauffmann 2003 and Kewley 2001 (dotted in my plot). "The [S II] BPT diagram is not affected by the N/O abun- dance ratio, and provides a cleaner separation within the ‘right-hand sequence’ between Sy and LIERs (Kewley et al. 2006)". The demarcation line between Seyfert and LINER is from Kewley 2006.
- Stars in LINER region are typically older than other regions. Stars in LINER region with larger S[II]/H$$\alpha$$ are older.
- cLIER: central (within one PSF at least) LIER (classified by S[II] BPT); eLIER: LIER extends to one PSF at least; Seyfert: AGN within PSF; Line-less: EW[H$$\alpha$$] < 1 within $1 R_e$. 
- More cLIER and more eLIER at high mass end, more SF at low mass end.
- They study H$$\alpha$$ profile and EW profile. SF has high EW, eLIER has low EW, cLIER has low EW at center, and EW increases rapidly. 
- cLIER and eLIER are supported by pAGB star because: 1. Old stellar population; 2. low EW and flat gradient. The gradients of ionization parameters also rules out AGN as sources of eLIER.

### [Voronoi bin: Adaptive spatial binning of integral-field spectroscopic data using Voronoi tessellations](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2003MNRAS.342..345C)
- Implement Voronoi bin in Python: [`VorBin`](https://pypi.org/project/vorbin/).
- [Michele Cappellari](http://www-astro.physics.ox.ac.uk/~mxc/software/) has written so many packages!!!

### [HI galaxies with little star formation: an abundance of LIERs](https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/485/3/3169/5368367)
- They selected 91 HI galaxies with no (or little) star formation from a HI survey. They study the IFU data of some of them, classify them into SF, Seyfert, LINER and LIER. They find most (75%) of these galaxies are LIER. 
- D4000 data implies that LIER region has an average stellar population age ~ 5 Gyrs. Given that pAGB stars come to power 2 Gyrs after the last star formation event (Belfiore 2017), this paper supports the post AGB scenario. 


## 03/11/19 - 03/17/19
#### Subo Dong's talk on Supernovae

Kinetic energy is $$10^{51}​$$ erg.

Radiation energy is $$10^{49}$$ erg.

10000 km/s is the typical velocity for SN explosion.

Zwicky: pioneer of searching SN.

SN1987A: in LMC, but is type II.

Gravitational binding energy: $$10^{53}$$ erg. Where has energy gone? Neutrino!

Neutrino energy: $$10^{53}​$$ erg.

**We still don't know the explosion mechanism of CC SN**

Detection power: $$A(\mathrm{m}^2)\times\Omega(\mathrm{deg}^2)$$, and LSST stands out!


SNe Ia are the "main sequence" of SNe, they are regularity and continuous.

Type II and Type Ib/Ic trace star formation. Type Ia doesn't depend on environment too much.

The light of SN comes from $$^{56}\mathrm{Ni}$$ decay. Low luminosity Ia are from elliptical galaxies, on the contrast, Ia in spirals are more luminous. Every theory should be able to produce an order of magnitude difference of Nicole. 1991bg: low luminosity; 1991T: super luminosity.

We don't know how to trigger the explosion. (Maoz et al., 2014 ARAA); Duran Kushnir, Boaz Katz, Dan Maoz

Try to find close WD pairs as SN progenitors: SPY survey.

Subo: major channel WD-WD direct collision. ~ 20% WD in triples can explain the major channel of SN Ia.

Long time to produce low mass WD, thus more sub luminous Ia in ETG.

Just explode: we only see photosphere, ejecta are optical thick. With time goes on, we see deeper into that. After months, the ejecta gets nearly transparent, and turns into nebular phase.

Smoking gun paper: using cobalt line and found bimodal velocity distribution. Two chunks of Ni56! Fraction: 3/20. But viewing angle should be taking into consideration!

Non-equal mass of WD pairs leads to blueshift-redshift of cobalt lines.

Ping's new work: H$$\alpha$$ line, thin, less than 200 km/s. Maybe Ia-CSM?

## 03/04/19 - 03/11/19

### [Spectroscopic Constraints on the Build-up of the Intracluster Light in the Coma Cluster](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.13242.pdf)


### [The distance, supernova rate and supernova progenitors of NGC 6946](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.00173)
- We can estimate the SFR over the last $$\sim 100$$ Myrs using core-collapse SNe rate. This is only the lower limit of SFR since there are more missed or failed CC-SNe that we didn't see. 
- Given a SFR and metallicity, one can calculate the FUV luminosity of a galaxy. After applying extinction (both from the foreground and intrinsic) corrections and comparing it with observation, a luminosity distance can be determined.
- The distance to SN is crucial for determining the intrinsic luminosity of it. Larger distance here implies brighter/more massive progenitors. Using the new distance, two events become normal and can be explained from stellar physics models. Distances should be paid attention to!
- The homepage of first author: [Dr. J. J. Eldridge](https://jjeldridge.blogs.auckland.ac.nz)

---
### On Stellar Population Synthesis:
#### [How to measure galaxy star-formation histories I: Parametric models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.03635)

#### [How to measure galaxy star formation histories II: Nonparametric models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.03637)

#### [Stellar population synthesis at the resolution of 2003 (BC03)](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2003MNRAS.344.1000B)
---

## 02/25/19 - 03/03/19

### [The NANOGrav 11-Year Data Set: Limits on Gravitational Waves from Individual Supermassive Black Hole Binaries](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.11585)
- Just read this [astrobite](https://astrobites.org/2019/02/21/searching-for-gravitational-waves-from-binary-supermassive-black-holes-with-cosmic-lighthouses/) on this paper.
- NANOGrav project provides another approach of detecting gravitational waves. LIGO (and other ground-based experiments) is sensitive to high-frequency GW (1-1000 Hz), which is usually excited by binary BH mergers or binary NS mergers. Pulsar timing array is sensitive to low-frequency GW (nano-Hz), usually excited by the merger of supermassive BHs which are the result of galaxy-galaxy mergers.
- (Submilimeter) Pulsar is the lighthouse in the universe. If the gravitational wave propagate in the direction from the pulsar to us, the period of pulsar will be slightly different. This paper analyzes the past 11-year data from 43 pulsars, and find no GW event above a certain strain. 
> We find that there are no SMBHBs with a chirp mass greater than $$10^9$$ solar masses within a distance of 120 Mpc and none with chirp passes greater than $$10^{10}$$ solar masses within 5.5 Gpc. Using this data set, the collaboration has determined that there are no SMBHBs in the Virgo Cluster with a chirp mass greater than $$1.6 \times 10^9$$ solar masses emitting gravitational waves at a frequency of 9 nHz, which implies that none of the galaxies NGC 4472, NGC 4486, or NGC 4649 (which are all candidates for gravitational waves in the Virgo Cluster) could contain SMBHBs emitting gravitational waves in this frequency range.
- I know very little about this area. But it will be quite exciting if we detected the GW from SMBHs merger in the nearby galaxies.

### [A Brief History of Gravitational Waves](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.09400.pdf)
- The discovery of the first GW event is quite interesting and exciting. It's worth noting that 'inject' events test the correct judgment of GW events. 
- Unlike electromagnetic wave, which can be excited by electric dipole (one positive, one negative), the gravitational wave cannot be simply excited by a dipole, since there's nothing with negative mass.
- Imagine we have two points A and B. We can only detect the transverse GW which is propagating perpendicular to A-B. Only this type of GW could stretch the distance between A and B. The best 'ruler' of measuring distance is light. The speed of light is constant and unaltered by a gravitational wave.
- Richard Feynmann designed a gedanken experiment to show that gravitational waves do carry energy. “I was surprised to find that a whole day of the conference was spent on this issue and that ‘experts’ were confused. That’s what happens when one is considering energy conservation tensors, etc. instead of questioning, can waves do work?”
- Joseph Weber designed the very first GW detector, names "Weber bar". But limited by the suspension techniques and thermal noise isolation, Weber published wrong results of detections. This kind of intense GW comes from the central SMBH of milky way will make our galaxy disperse before we human beings exist.

{% include image.html url="/images/GW-spectrum.png" caption="Gravitational wave spectrum showing wavelength and frequency along with some anticipated sources and the kind of detectors one might use. Credit: NASA Goddard Space Flight Center." width=400 align="right" %}

- The coalescences between stellar mass black holes produces GW with the amplitude of $$h = 10^{-21}$$. 
- In designing an interferometer to detect GW, the optimal size of the arms is one-forth of the GW wavelength. (100 Hz corresponds to 750 km) Rainer Weiss came up with the idea of building an interferometer to detect GW in an undergraduate seminar on GR in MIT.
- Prior to LIGO, German has constructed a 600-m interferometer called GEO-600 (1994), which contributed a lot to this industry. France and Italy also built VIRGO (2003) detector at the same time with LIGO.
- Weiss cooperated with Thorne and Drever (both from Caltech) on building LIGO at first, but difficulties emerged between Weiss and Drever. Latter Barish took the position of Drever and became the leader of LIGO. He founded the laboratory LIGo and scientific collaboration LIGO, separately. 
- "Initial" LIGO runs from 2002 to 2010 but got no results. But right before the official run of "Advanced" LIGO, a GW from BH-BH merger was detected by aLIGO during an experimental run. After then, more and more GWs are detected by LIGO. Weiss, Thorne and Barish were awarded 2017 Nobel Prize in Physics. The new era has come.

## 02/18/19 - 02/24-19

### [The local and distant Universe: stellar ages and $H_0$](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.07081.pdf)
Hubble tension again. We measure $$H_0$$ from different aspects, but mainly from local distance ladder and CMB. The measurement of $$H_0$$ by using CMB is heavily based on $$\Lambda$$CDM model and basic physics in the early Universe. In the middle between CMB and local universe, SNe and BAO take part in. (Also notice that CMB could be used to probe all the physics from last scattering surface to today.) The determination of $$H_0$$ on local universe is based on some stellar physics (Cepheids, supernovae Ia). Note that local distance measurement relies on the flatness of Euclidean space. Gravitational Wave and counterparts, time-delay lensing, 

To be read.

### [Dependence of Type Ia supernova luminosities on their local environment](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.07697)
- I just read this [astrobite](https://astrobites.org/2019/02/18/type-ia-supernovae-could-use-some-more-color/) about this paper.
- People used to calibrate SNe Ia using color (B-V) and $$m_{15}$$. Now this paper suggest that the color of local environment of SNe (their surroundings) should also be considered as a factor of calibration. Redder color implies low SFR. Previous analyses have found that galaxies that are not forming many stars tend to host SNe Ia that are brighter than SNe Ia from very active galaxies even _after standardization_.
- They test the distribution of Hubble residual $$\mu - \mu_{model}$$ for SNe in different local environments (different $$U-V$$ color). They find significant difference ($$7\sigma$$).
- Hence, while calibrating things, we should not only consider the things themselves, but also the environments where they're located.

### [WFIRST, The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope: 100 Hubbles for the 2020s](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.05569.pdf)
- Scientific goal: weak lensing survey; find exoplanets by transient/microlensing and direct imaging (using coronagraph); supernova Ia survey and monitoring; general observation by submitting proposal. No data protection!
- Really **Wide Field**! **WFIRST can do COSMOS survey x125 faster; CANDELS-Wide 1050x faster;  3D-HST 730x faster**. (See Fig. 2 in this paper)
- Nice video about WFIRST: [WFIRST: The best of both worlds](https://youtu.be/LbJpVHMV1m4).
- WFIRST can discover (we hope so) 20,000 galaxies with $$z>8$$ (at the age of 0.6 Gyr) per month, 100 exoplanets per month, and about 8000 SNe Ia in total. 

## 01/21/19 - 01/27/19
### [A second galaxy missing dark matter in the NGC1052 group, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05973v1)

## 01/14/19 - 01/20/19

### [SDSS-IV MaNGA: Inside-out vs. outside-in quenching in different local environments](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05126)

### [The MASSIVE Survey - XII Connecting Stellar Populations of Early-Type Galaxies to Kinematics and Environment, by Jenny Greene](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.01271)

### [A mass-dependent slope of the galaxy size-mass relation out to z~3: further evidence for a direct relation between median galaxy size and median halo mass, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05014v1)
Continued from the following paper, which says $$r_{80}$$ may be related to galaxy halo. This paper studies this further and gets some interesting results. After reading this paper, I feel intensively that good science is linking difference fields. Dirac linked analytical mechanics (Poisson brackets) with quantum phenomena, then quantum mechanics was born. This paper superficially links the stellar mass - $$r_{80}$$ size diagram with the well-known stellar mass - halo mass relation, and get some interesting (maybe wrong, maybe correct) results.

- [Miller et al. 2019](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05017v1) already shows that the stellar mass - $$r_{80}$$ size diagram cannot tell the SF and passive galaxies apart. Fig. 1 shows that the median lines of stellar mass - $$r_{80}$$ size diagram are like two pieces of power law. Then they fit this 'broken power law' and define the pivot mass $$M_{p}$$, where the line turns up a little bit.

- Then they find the pivot mass evolve with redshift significantly. The first slope (which is lower) changes slightly over redshift, but the second slope changes much. Actually the first slope (piece) is just composed of the passive galaxy branch, and the second slope (piece) is presented by SF galaxies.

- Most interestingly, they remind of the stellar mass - halo mass relation. If the x-axis is stellar mass and y-axis is halo mass, the SMHM relation resembles this stellar mass - size diagram in $$r_{80}$$. So what's the physics behind this? First, the halo mass is proportional to the cubed virial radius $$R_{vir}$$. And if $$r_{80}$$ is proportional to $$R_{vir}$$, then it's reasonable that $$r_{80}$$ is a proxy of halo mass. So they just fit this coefficient for the most nearby redshift bin and find $$r_{80} = 0.047 R_{vir}$$. Assuming this holds for all redshift ranges, they plot SMHM relation predicted by $$r_{80}$$, which is now a proxy of halo mass. They find it's good to $$z\sim 2$$.

- In measuring the SMHM relation, there are many methods such as g-g lensing and clustering (which is more direct and more observational), abundance matching, and halo occupation distribution. But different methods gives different results and have different detection ability on redshift. They author also define a pivot masses for the SMHM relations and study their evolution. They don't match with stellar mass - size one. So they suspect the intrinsic scatter may cause huge caveat when convert a halo-to-stellar relation to stellar-to-halo relation.

### [A New View of the Size-Mass Distribution of Galaxies: Using $r_{20}$ and $r_{80}$ instead of $r_{50}$, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05017v1)
The classfication of galaxies can not only based on stellar mass - color diagram (also stellar mass - SFR diagram), bust also based on stellar mass - size diagram. In the past, people usually use the effective radius $$r_{50}$$ as a proxy of galaxy size. (But I have been suspecting how well can $$r_{50}$$ describe the size of a galaxy for a long time.) As a common sense, massive elliptical galaxies are more extended in the outskirts, but spirals are not. If we fit a galaxy using a single Sersic model, ellipticals tend to have larger Sersic index $$n$$. In this paper, Pieter and his collaborators check what would happen if we use $$r_{20}$$ and $$r_{80}$$ as proxies of galaxy sizes. And I remember that Sandy Faber talked about this quite a lot in a colloquium in KIAA.
- This paper is quite straightforward. (But I didn't dig deep into the sample selection part.) They find that if we use $$r_{20}$$, then using the stellar mass - size diagram can easily distinguish star-forming and passive galaxies apart. But using $$r_{80}$$, SF and passive behaves similarly.
- In this paper, authors use some new algorithms/terms in statistics: [Hartigan's dip test](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/diptest/); Gaussian mixture models; Bayesian information criterion; Ashman's $$D$$ parameter; Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. But actually these are also straightforward.
- They suspect $$r_{20}$$ has something to do with star-forming / quenching. Since $$r_{80}$$ is not very different between SF and passive galaxies, it may be related to the galaxy halo.
- Besides, I find that log-normal distribution is interesting, see this paper [Log-normal distributions across the science: keys and clues](https://academic.oup.com/bioscience/article/51/5/341/243981).

### [Still Missing Dark Matter: KCWI High-Resolution Stellar Kinematics of NGC1052-DF2, by Pieter van Dokkum group](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.03711v1)
On how to measure the velocity dispersion directly from spectrum, I found a paper by Luis Ho in 2002: [A Study of the Direct Fitting Method for Measurement of Galaxy Velocity Dispersions](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/343840/pdf). The main idea in this paper is:
- In measuring velocity dispersion, it's convenient to use $$x = \ln(\lambda)$$ scale, because $$x' = \ln[\lambda(1+z)] = x + \ln(1+z) \approx x + z$$ for $$z\ll 1$$.
- Find some spectrums of stars as templates. They don't have any velocity dispersions (or can be ignored).
- Assume the effect of velocity dispersion is Gaussian. Then, to get a dispersed spectrum, you should convolve the template with a Gaussian kernel with a given radius. Write this in maths, that is $$T(x)]\otimes G(x, r)$$.
- But we should consider that the featureless continuum components are different between template and galaxy. So we simply add a featureless continuum which is typically a straight line with $$x = \ln(\lambda)$$ (in $$\lambda$$ domain this is an exponential continuum). Hence: $$[T(x)\otimes G(x, r)] + C(x)$$.
- To compensate other effects such as reddening difference between template and galaxy, we multiply a low-order Legendre polynomial, then get the final model spectrum. That is:
$$M(x) = \{[T(x)\otimes G(x, r)] + C(x)\}\sum_l P_l(x).$$
- Then we have several parameters, like Gaussian kernel radius, continuum straight line intercept and slope, and coefficients for every order Legendre polynomials. Note that in $$\chi^2$$, the error term contains the measurement error of galaxy spectrum, and error of template which is typically negligible. At last, let MCMC be. The radius of Gaussian kernel should be the velocity dispersion (need a conversion).

Now for the NGC1052-DF2 case, Shany make a spectrum combining spectrums of all special region. And this spectrum has been broadened. Shany uses templates from two Global Clusters, say M3 and M13. The templates here has already been broadened by velocity dispersion (Gaussian). And we know the $$\sigma$$ of two Gaussian obeys $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}^2 = \sigma_{\mathrm{template}}^2 + \sigma_{\mathrm{measure}}^2$$, where $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}$$ is the velocity dispersion of DF2. So we can measure $$\sigma_{\mathrm{measure}}$$ by the same method as stated above, and then get the velocity dispersion of DF2 $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}}$$, which is $$\sigma_{\mathrm{star}} = 8.4\pm2.1\ \mathrm{km
 s}^{-1}$$.

How to calculate the dynamical mass given the velocity dispersion? I need to figure out.

Intrinsic shape or rotation axis (minor axis rotation.)

Kevin: it's not necessarily weird that we detect a galaxy lacking dark matter in its central region. Given the large scatter of halo mass and halo concentration of a given stellar mass in the low-mass end, it's probably that we just encountered a galaxy with low halo mass and low halo concentration.


## Gaussian process
http://www.gaussianprocess.org/gpml/chapters/RW.pdf

Vox Charta Key: jiaxuan_li@PKU

Convert LaTeX to html gif picture: [https://www.codecogs.com/latex/eqneditor.php](https://www.codecogs.com/latex/eqneditor.php)