---
layout: post
title:  "astro-ph Reading in 2020"
date:   2020-01-14 12:00:00
author: Jiaxuan Li
categories: paper
---
Again, feel very ashamed for the decadence in the past year 2019. I will try to read as many paper as possible and do my best in 2020.

[AAS-Nova](https://aasnova.org)

[Astrobite](https://astrobites.org)

## January 2020

### [Early-type Host Galaxies of Type Ia Supernovae. II. Evidence for Luminosity Evolution in Supernova Cosmology](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2019arXiv191204903K/abstract)

- The Supernovae Cosmology (Riess, Perlmutter, Schmidt) has a fundamental assumption: the absolute magnitude of SNe Ia after standardization doesn't evolve with time. They compared nearby SNe Ia in late- and early-type galaxies, concluded no significant differences. However, recent observations have found the dependence of standardized luminosity on other factors: SN Ia is 1) brighter in ETG; 2) brighter in more massive galaxies; 3) fainter in high SFR region. However, how does these factors (SFR, mass, morphology) directly affect the progenitor of SNe Ia? We don't know.

- The authors proposed that **stellar age** and **metallicity** are the direct factors of the luminosity variation. The dependence on mass, SFR, morphology can be attributed to age and metallicity. Hence they studied ~50 ETGs, derived their stellar ages and metallicities, concluded that **SNe Ia in galaxies with older stellar population is brighter**. The correlation is significant. 

  {% include image.html url="/images/astro-ph/Kang2019.png" caption="Luminosity evolution of SNe Ia can mimic dark energy" width=350 align="right" %}

- Why do we need dark energy? Because we have found that the luminosity of SNe Ia at high-z is fainter than expected, so we need dark energy to dilute the light and increase the distance. However, if SN Ia in young ETG (which is at high-z) is intrinsically fainter, then we don't need dark energy any more. In Figure 16, they showed that the (reported) luminosity evolution of SNe Ia can mimic dark energy. 

  

